# AI-Powered Diet Planner
The AI-Powered Diet Planner is an innovative web application built using ReactJS and integrated with the OpenAI API. This project aims to provide users with personalized and intelligent diet plans generated by artificial intelligence algorithms.

## Features
- *User Input*: Users can input their specific dietary requirements, weight, height, and your personal goals like calorie deficit or superavit.

- *AI-Powered Recommendations*: The application leverages the OpenAI API to generate customized diet plans based on the user's input, considering factors like nutritional needs, calorie intake, macronutrient distribution, and food preferences.

- *Meal Suggestions*: The application provides users with daily meal suggestions tailored to their dietary needs, including a variety of recipes, portion sizes, and meal timings.

- *Ingredient Substitutions*: Suitable ingredient substitutions are suggested for users with dietary restrictions or allergies, ensuring meal plans remain both nutritious and safe.

- *Nutritional Analysis*: Detailed nutritional analysis is provided for each meal, allowing users to track their calorie intake, macronutrient distribution, and essential nutrients.

- *Interactive User Interface*: The project incorporates a responsive and user-friendly interface designed with ReactJS, providing a seamless and intuitive user experience across devices.

## Installation
Clone the repository:
```npm
git clone https://github.com/JuanTrindade/diating-ia
```

Navigate to the project directory: 
``` npm
cd dieting-ia
```

Install dependencies: 
```npm
npm install
```
Set up your OpenAI API key by adding it to the .env file.

Start the development server: 
```npm
npm start
```

## Usage

- Open your browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000.
- Input your dietary requirements and preferences.
- View the generated personalized diet plan with meal suggestions.
- Explore the nutritional analysis for each meal.

## Authors
- Juan Trindade 🖥️
